# IOT-project
IOT based Dumpster Monitoring System

Abstract:
In today's fast and materialistic world, it is very much likely for someone to ignore small details of the society. Specifically when it comes to pollution control and global warming, the planet has seen it's worst downfall during the last 10-15 years. Detection, monitoring and management of wastes is one of the main problems in today's era. The traditional way of manually checking the wastes in waste bins is an inconvenient way and requires more human effort, time and cost. This can be avoided by the Dumpster Monitoring System.
This system will tell us that whether the trash can is empty or full through the web server and you can know the status of your ‘Trash Can’ or 'Dumpsters' from anywhere in the world over the Internet. It will be very useful and can be installed in the Trash Cans at public places as well as at home. This IOT based waste management project uses an ultrasonic sensor to make a check whether a certain trash can is filled to its brim with garbage or is empty. The ultrasonic sensor helps in the detection of presence of garbage when placed on the top of any trash can. It will automatically measure the distance of the garbage present in the dumpster from the top of trash can and with the help of the threshold value set up by the user (based on height of the dumpster) it will notify us the presence of garbage in the can. 
If the distance detected will be lesser than the default threshold value, it implies that the dumpster is filled with garbage. With the help of code, we can display the message "Your dumpster is full!" on the webpage. Whereas, if the distance is more than the default threshold value, then the message "Your dumpster is empty!" will be printed out. In this dumpster monitoring system, we will use ESP8266 Wi-fi module for connecting the Arduino to the web server.
